# TimeWarp

#Final Notes
- added glitch feature that spawns monsters from other time periods after you pick up 4 fuel pick-ups. I wanted to create a different trigger for the time warp, but I think this is simple enough to implement in the time limit. 
- created UI
-added second level


#PlayTest Notes
Playtesting brought up a few things that I want to either change or keep the same in my game. I had planned on changing the 'ricochet' features of the game as I had it, as the bullets kind of wander around the screen for a while, rather than seeming like bullets. But talking to my playtester, he thought that leaving the mechanic as is was more fun, as trying to get the bullets as they bumped around the screen was kind of fun and interesting. So I ended up keeping that the same instead of changing it. My playtester also mentioned that maybe a smaller level might be fun, with things all getting on top of your and making this frantic kind of environment, so for level two  I decided to add more dividing walls to make the space seemed a little more enclosed. We also talked about getting the artifacts working better and adding a lot more to the UI so that the player can know how much health etc. is left. I also discussed my future plans for the game, adding a 'glitch' feature that when it's triggered monsters from other time periods start to spawn. 


#Control

The first game I'm looking at in the Shake that Button arcade is The Conduit. The Conduit is an interactive game that uses project, custom controllers and costume to play out a simulation of the future. The Conduit is a social game that many people can interact with at the same time to play cooperatively. The game is started by a group of people called the Visoneers. They pick certain values, that the citizens must live within. The visioners will then clain taxes and provide social services. People use a tablet with stylus type input to control their avatars on the projection. There are also people acting as the Press and the Others who are controlling the weather. This game is very much a commetary on life and culture and encourages people to work together, both within the groups and within the whole simulation. This game is what I would classify as a simulation game, and as far as I can tell doesn't involve puzzles or other game mechanics. The most interesting thing I found about this game is the custom controllers, it seemed like they had tried to incorporate the overall style of the game into how the controller worked. 

The second game I looked at is Wizard's Warehouse. This is also a cooperative game and involves a simulation of a warehouse that sells objects to a wizarding community. Bar code scanners are used to sell items and orders that are completed to successfully gain points for the players. There is an element of memory testing in this game, as certain item locations have to be remembered in order to sell them. This also involves working in real space, as the barcodes are in different drawers and cabinents to represent actually stocking items. This game is more based on gaining points, but still involves cooperation and teamwork. Using a barcode scanner as a contoller is an interesting twist, as most people already know how to use a barcode scanner it involves a lower barrier of entry to start the game. Both games are interesting twists on what can be considered a game, as these two involve moving through physical space as well as game space, and add a level of cooperation that most games don't foster. Both are 'simulation' games, where they're creating a simulated world that the players must move through to win. 





#Shmup Project

I wanted to create something with a mechanic that let me try something a little outside of the box. I decided to go with the time traveller who ricochets bullets because I think it allows for something a little different but also stays in the shmup genre. I also really like the idea of a stylized game, so having something a little "Back to the Future"- esque is a little cool. This game will involve a time traveller who is trying to collect artifacts without disrupting the flow of time. Disrupting the flow of time is destroying enemies with your own gun or causing damage to the area that was obviously caused by a time traveller. This means that often a better way to navigate enemies in the game will involve ricocheting projectiles from an enemy instead of shooting them with bullets from your own gun, this being part of the puzzle solving element of the game, that the player must decide when it's useful to destroy something outright, vs. trying to evade or outsmart the enemy. Another main concept in the game will be that the player must collect fuel cells that power the time machine and allow you to get to the next level. This means that the level isn't timed, but instead you need enough fuel to get to the next level, but also allows the player to decide if they want to continue on a level even if they have enough fuel, it might be beneficial to keep gathering items or collecting more fuel to guarantee your survival in the next level. The player will have a pretty standard health bar that allows the enemies to attack with projectiles and kill the player (resulting in a level starting over). Sometimes the player will have to solve puzzles like ricocheting bullets around corners to stop a TREx from immediately stomping on you (for example). These are the general rules of the game. The conflict comes in the form of the enemies who try to stop the time traveller from collecting their artifacts, as well as the time traveller being challenged to leave as little damage behind as possible, due to time being disrupted if you do. Resource Management is one of the most important things within this game, due to having to juggle fuel and artifact collection as well as having to weigh the pros and cons of using your own gun to kill things, as it ends up causing you to die if you change the flow of time too much. This means if you use your own bullets early on, you may have trouble later in the game. This resource management is one of the chief constraints of the game and the cause of most of the puzzle elements. This game will be a player vs. game type, and involves the playing trying to outsmart the enemies through time. The game will end when the player gets back to present time with as many artifacts as possible (resulting in a higher or lower score.

*[Process Documentation] (./Process/)
